Okay, we're talking to Mr. Ole Cassini.
You said that book had to be written, sir.
Yes, because, first of all, the people have a very one-dimensional idea about Jackie.
The book had to be written because it's part of history.
This is a lady that single-handedly created Camelot.
This is a lady that was inspired, being a Francophile,
by Versailles.
She thought she would create the ambiance, the beauty, the interesting people, all of which were part of the ancient French courts.
And she was erudite, she was interested, and she was ambitious.
So, step by step, surrounding herself with the people she considered the best qualified for the job,
She began phase two of her life, because I see Jackie in four phases.
Really?
She was four ladies, not one.
She was a complex personality.
And where I thought that I had to do something is because I thought that unless a beautiful book was put together, that...
wonderful achievement that she got in creating camera art would not be clearly understood.
I think this graphically shows with the modest talent that I have as a writer, but having enough culture and interest, I thought that I would put a book together that would be a permanent part of America.
It may seem ambitious,
It may seem for me to be ambitious about this project, but I thought that if you could have a non-polemic book beautifully presented, step by step showing how she gained confidence in her job, how she became really the first lady of the land, and one of the most important characters in recent history.
Did she know that you were working on this before she died?
No.
She did not know.
I didn't know I was going to do it.
You probably would not have done it, do you think, if she were still alive?
I would have stopped because there were two things that were interesting in the book.
First, I wanted to put to the best of my ability together this thousand days of magic that were magical for the nation, for the world, and for me.
And then, secondly, I wanted to redress certain of the things
that I went through 35 years, because if she'd been alive, she was always there to defend me.
She was a very, very private person.
She didn't want people to interfere.
Very loyal, it sounds.
But very, very loyal.
So she...
It was important for me to put the letters that she wrote me.
Of course, the letters are letters that are interesting only because they refer to the work I was doing for her.
But in the casting, at the beginning, a lot of people in the industry didn't want to acknowledge that I had the right to be considered.
I just didn't fit.
Why do you suppose that is?
Well, I don't know.
For the very reason that I fitted with them, somehow, for some of the cogniscenti of the 7th Avenue, they proposed other designers.
It was a very plum job.
It was an important thing for me, for any designer.
And the traditional viewpoint in fashion was that you have to go to Paris first.
and then pay homage there, and then come back, and then pretend that you're creative, when in effect, often, you just copy what they do.
I think a point you make is that this was an American statement, too.
Yes.
And that's very important, isn't it?
And it's a very good question, because the key was that I created a look for her.
I didn't want to create dresses for the sake of creating dresses.
I want to be logical.
And that's why she selected me, because in Hollywood I had the opportunity to work with a script.
In effect, I was given a script.
That's wonderful.
I love that whole concept.
I was given a script, and it was easy for me, because I had worked in Italy, I had worked in France, I had worked in Hollywood, and on Seventh Avenue, so I had a pretty good record there.
The question was,
Why me?
Why me is because I was more than a designer.
I was a friend of the family, trusted, because above all, there was a question of trust.
And, of course, because she thought that my international experience and my being an American and my military service... But also your royal...
Blood must have been helpful too, I would think.
Well, in her viewpoint, yes, because she thought that I would be able to interpret a look for her that was for her role.
She always said to me, you dressed me for the role.
She said that.
Yes.
She said that to me and to others.
So you don't think it was ego then?
No, I think that once she got some competence, because it was like a play in Broadway.
And she was young, too.
I think people forget how young she was.
Very young, and suddenly thrust into a position of such power where every movement was analyzed.
She became a number one ambassador in the world.
But power is a strange...
strange thing it affects people differently and as she grew in power she realized that she really had something that she could do a mission you you recount in the book how when you went to see her in the hospital and she said she immediately asked you if you'd work with work with her and you said only if I do it alone correct I thought that was a very gutsy thing for you to do it was gutsy it was I recognized this it was a
Take your chance and say the thing you should say.
Because I said to her, and I think you read it before, I said, look, if you have more than one person, you're going to have tremendous battles for recognition from all your designers.
And discretion will not be a part of their everyday diet because they're going to fight for recognition.
And you would spend a lot of time with them.
You need somebody, and it doesn't have to be me, because I was a friend after all.
She said, take someone that will see what they have to do, do it for you diligently, and then you'll be much more comfortable.
And then at that time, she said, but you know, I already ordered a dress and bird clothes.
I read that.
It's wonderful.
And I said, I understand that.
So she called Bergdorf, and you read that, and she said, Cassini will do the designing.
And you can make it.
And you can make them.
And they said, no, we have designers.
So it didn't work out to a person.
That wasn't too smart of them, was it?
I think it was not smart at all.
Because at least they would have gotten some recognition out of it.
Continuous recognition.
Yeah.
So you made the...
all of this material in your shop.
Well, I was a very successful designer at the time, and I consider myself successful today.
I was one of the best lines on 7th Avenue, and I created a separate entity to be able to service her.
I was amazed that there were 300 outfits for 1,000 days.
That's one every three days.
Yes, but a lot of designs were not even photographed.
I mean, that's a lot of work for you.
Tremendous.
When I look at that book, sometimes I take that book and I look at it.
And I said, how could you do it?
It was so, there were many risks.
First of all, what really happened, it was very lucky for me, is that the first two or three outfits that appeared were saluted by everybody as being wonderful.
And the most severe critics of fashion are the French.
And they recognized that a new look had been born and that there was a tranquil, dignified look for a first lady.
I wasn't trying to use her as a model for my collection and my ideas.
I was just going with the scenario.
Was there anything that you did for her that she didn't like?
A couple of times.
Did she ever send things back?
She sent me a couple things back.
Did you learn from these?
I learned from them because I had an idea that because she was an equestrian and a very good one.
And you were an instructor in the cavalry.
Yeah, I was also doing the same things with horses and we had a horse dialogue going.
And I sent her a quote that I recreated.
It was kind of inspired by the hunt, the pink.
Okay.
And I thought that she would love it.
Unfortunately, I picked the regular fabric that is used for such things and turned out to be so heavy that she couldn't wear it.
So she sent it back and she said, very good idea, but it's too heavy.
I can't wear it.
What did she, what kind of input did she, did she give input?
Did she help her?
Only very general.
Look,
If you look at, when she hired the cook for the White House because she wanted French cuisine, she would say to the cook, prepare me a menu and do it.
And the same with me.
Once I presented the sketches and she liked them, and 99% of the time she liked them, she said, do it.
Just do it.
So you presented her with sketches first.
Yes.
But people had the idea, completely erroneous, that she arrived at the White House from phase one to phase two with a lot of clothes, wheat-torn luggage, having lived in luxury and all that.
No, it was not.
She was very parsimonious in the first phase.
First she'd been a reporter and then married to a senator.
Jack Kennedy didn't spend much on clothes.
He was such a charismatic, elegant figure.
He didn't need it.
But she needed it.
And she'd say, all right, I'm going to India.
What do you think?
So I had to think about the colors, the fabrics, because of the climate.
So I had to put the thing in work.
And in the letters you will see that she was very kind towards me.
She constantly complimented me and kept my morale high.
And I did my job.
I kept doing my job.
Canada is one thing.
Climate is one thing.
India is another thing.
France is another thing.
England is another thing.
Not just these countries, but we're talking about the Pope and De Gaulle.
Yes.
They wanted to interview me about the dress she wore when she visited the Pope.
But I could not do the interview because we had made a deal with CBS, with...
Good Morning America, which was postponed because of O.J.
Simpson.
So I find myself squeezed in between O.J.
Simpson and the Pope.
Quite a country, isn't it?
It is a country.
It is.
I love your observation that what you developed for her was a concept.
I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about this conceptual... Well, first of all, I remember having real fear when suddenly she said, you're the one.
I said, what do I do now?
Because it was easy to talk, but to do it was another thing.
And I said, go back to your background.
See what you can learn from your background to do a good job here.
And I felt suddenly...
completely relaxed when I said, I'm going to do what I did in Hollywood.
I'm going to think about her life, what she's going to have to do, I want to facilitate her life.
Everything has to be perfect because she was such a perfectionist, believe me.
Friends or no friends, if I had not done the job in the first two weeks, I was a goner.
Oh, I'm sure of that.
A goner.
And I knew it.
People at that level don't call high power.
No.
And the strange thing about power, because in my life I've been very lucky, I've been close to high power.
And they change.
They change.
No matter.
It's not pejoratively said, it's just that when you constantly, constantly, sycophantically change,
treated during night and day, it is impossible in human nature not to take some of it.
So she really was a taskmaster.
She wanted the best, and she thought she got the best, and I thought she got the best.
Let's say that she's the same person, with the same temperament, with the same aspirations, and that she looks a little different.
I'm not saying that she's unattractive, but was it necessary for her to be the woman that she was physically for you to create?
Yes, because
Another very good question, because there are limitations.
There were no limitations with her.
She was a pretty woman.
The question was to make her appear as pretty as possible, because every human body has some things that are better than other features, you know.
And so I made a profound anatomical analysis of her.
I also said to myself, where does the inspiration come?
What is she to you?
All right, she's the first lady now.
You have to satisfy every whim.
But who is she for you?
To me, she was an ancient princess of Egypt.
The wife of a pharaoh, maybe, because her lines were very geometric.
You give her measurements in here, too.
Yes, it's interesting.
And so this inspiration...
was logical because I knew that she would wear certain clothes extremely well.
Other things would not be suited for her.
If suddenly I decided to aggrandize my own name, to dress her in frilly things, no, there had to be a draconian departure.
Eliminate everything and start from scratch for her.
Don't have preconceived notions.
Only do things that will make her appear at her best.
First example, when I realized that she was going to be seen by the world during the swearing-in, it was a very cold day, I remember, in January, I believe, and I had been given the instruction that she needed something.
At that point, she didn't even have the time to tell me what she would like, the color she would like.
So I said to my, I looked,
I tried to look at the scene.
I said, well, all these ladies are going to wear fur coats.
And they look like bears.
Now I'm going to have her look like a young, beautiful, simple thing.
And that little coat, base coat, with pillbox, by the way, that other people said they're designed, which is not true, uh...
made her look so young, so fresh, so pretty, so unpretentious.
Because one of the things that I think I was lucky to get into right away, that although she was regal in her periods, there was some quiet elegance, laissez faire, like if it was a natural thing.
It was not some effort to create it.
clothes that everybody would say, oh, how wonderful that dress.
I want people to say how wonderful she looked.
Focus on her beauty.
How often did you have to go to Washington?
Oh, all the time.
All the time.
And there, of course, I had the advantage of being invited to dinner, stayed there, come in any time.
I mean, you know.
Pretty nice.
But I have to tell you a little thing that happened to me.
The first group of dresses that after two weeks where she stayed in,
and she had nothing to wear, truly nothing to wear, I told the secretary that I would arrive with some clothes.
And I took the train, and I had about eight or nine boxes, big boxes like that.
I couldn't find a porter, and I expected the White House to send somebody to help me.
And I looked around, and it was snowing at Castle Road.
Well, I want to tell you something, that there was a snafu, and nobody came to pick me up.
So I had to be in line, pushing these boxes on my seat, while there were hundreds of people asking for a taxi.
Finally, slipping a 20 to the guy, I got myself a place in a cab with five other people.
Wow.
And he said, where are we going?
I said, the White House.
So we go to the White House.
They clear me, and they say, Cassini and his
as people are coming in, and they thought the passengers were my people.
I was alone.
And these people were absolutely amazed.
I'm sure they still talk about that to this very day.
I guess, have we regressed since then?
Because it was such a statement of fashion and how important things are.
I'm just thinking in terms of
How important was she as a leader, as a senator?
Well, she was important then, but the more interesting thing, by coincidence, in history, every major designer is doing the Jackie Look now.
Still?
I still have a return to it.
No, the return, why?
Good question.
I gave it a lot of thought, believe me.
We are a country that is not at ease.
We are very, very
We're passing a strange period in our history, in the world, as a matter of fact.
So the designers for years now have done clothes not for people but for the media.
So they would pick a genetically perfect individual, put some crazy clothes on them, parade them, and these were wearable clothes.
And suddenly, because they didn't sell in the stores and because
There was a nostalgic desire to go to a quieter elegance.
Who could, better than her, could give that example?
So today, everybody, I reproduce the entire line that I did for her, and every store is buying it.
I understand you're bringing out a line, is it this fall, the black tie line?
Well, the black tie is done all along, but in the black tie, there is a group.
I mean, there was some Jackie inspired.
Yeah, oh yeah, yeah.
And that's coming out?
It's now.
It's in the store.
Because I read the presses of this flaw.
I guess this is the flaw.
Yeah.
Tell me about some of these ingenious things, like the hat and the... Where did that come from?
Well, that little pillbox.
The pillbox.
The pillbox was born this way.
In my inspiration, I thought about Egypt.
And if you really think of what... Nefertiti.
Nefertiti.
Exactly.
Nefertiti, I said.
Furthermore, she didn't particularly like hands.
So I had to create non-hands.
Something that would finish the whole look, but was not...
Again focusing on the hat itself.
Was the muff your idea too?
The thing she put her hand in?
Yes, yes.
It was called a muff, I think.
Yes.
But she, I didn't do that for her.
She had, she got it from one of her relatives.
And because I'm a nun for designer, even the little mink that she put around her collar, that was hers.
And it finished the outfit very nicely, but I mean it.
Now I had a terrible experience when I recommended to her to
wear a, because it was out of fashion at the time, a leopard coat.
And I still feel the pain of having done that, because they almost killed all the leopards in the world.
They became so fashionable.
And that turned me away from all of that, and I am now regretted.
It's one of the sins, involuntary sins, I committed.
We weren't, don't we?
No.
You...
Of course, now you've made clothes for Grace Kelly.
What if Grace Kelly had been the first lady?
Same thing.
It would have been the same.
She was almost the first lady.
I understand.
She is a... She would have played... She would have been dressed differently, but she would have been a very good first lady, Grace Kelly.
I'm also talking about how would you...
had the same assignment let's say to if Grace had been the first lady and you had had the same position with her that you had with Jackie do you think you would have done similar kinds of no because the bodies were different I would have done completely in fact I think I'm going to do a collection on Grace Kelly a completely different approach so obviously the
physical, the body, as you say.
The body.
She had a long neck.
She had a sphinx-like interesting face.
An exquisite woman.
Yes.
And everything lended itself to the hieroglyphical kind of inspiration.
No frills in all her clothes.
Very great simplicity.
We're talking about Kelly now, right?
No, we're talking about... Grace would have been another thing.
More diaphanous, more...
Angelic, a different type.
But you say in the book you imagined the use for the particular dress, the outfit.
So let's say that you were imagining the same event, meeting with the Pope, meeting with de Gaulle.
It would still have been different.
It would have been different, yeah.
Completely different.
Interesting.
Did you wear many of these things over again?
Yes, many.
I think our misconception is that she wore one of these dresses once.
No, no, no.
Some of the more recognizable dresses she wore two or three times.
She liked them.
Publicly?
Publicly.
And she had them made in different colors.
She did, yes.
I love the fact that she had said that you reproduced it in the book.
Under no circumstances she absolutely has to have the first.
Yes.
Why was that so important?
Well,
It would have been commercial otherwise.
It would have been seen that I was profiting from that to put in my collection.
In fact, I never, never, never put any of the dresses that I did for her in my collection.
Really?
Never.
Never?
Because the American woman I was thinking about for my collection was not the first lady of the land.
It was a completely different thing and the people don't understand
A painter like Picasso had periods in his life.
He had the blue period and all kinds of different moments in the evolution of a talent.
And without comparing myself to a great master like Picasso, I think I am, in a commercial art like fashion, I am one of the best.
And I can imagine certain things because a good designer has to have a sense of history,
has to have a political sense, has to have what the consumer is concerned about, what it needs.
So you have to be... Would you say that your experience with her, I mean, very successful, noted, famous...
designer before your collaboration with her.
I don't even know if you consider it a collaboration.
You did work for her.
Of course, you've done remarkable things since.
But would you say, nevertheless, that that was more or less the defining event?
Yes, because here I was dealing with a lady that was admired worldwide.
Every work, every dress that I would do, coat or suit, whatever,
were scrutinized by the world.
Thousands and thousands, hundreds of thousands of women imitated her.
So I think one thing we never address, or that I've not heard addressed, is this is risky.
It's an opportunity of a lifetime, but it was fraught with some risks for you, I would think.
A Broadway play.
You don't know how it's going to go, first night.
You're putting a lot of money behind it, lots of hopes, and suddenly, showtime.
So, I mean, this could have, it did wonderful things for your reputation, it certainly only enhanced it, but worst case scenario is... Worst case scenario, I would have been obliterated.
Really?
Were you alert to that possibility?
Well, fortuna, you were audacious.
Good luck follows the audacious.
I mean, you know, in life you have moments where enough, you have the vision of what could happen, good and bad, and you have to take a chance if you want to go forward.
If you want to be safe, that's not the game you want to play.
That's not a safe game.
She certainly is unique to our lifetimes, isn't she?
Yes.
I don't know how many First Ladies there have been since then, and I certainly, even outside of the White House, I can't think of another woman.
Well, you won't have anything.
The combination of certain factors.
A handsome president, rich, photogenic and charismatic, a First Lady of great beauty, dignity, and good taste.
Intelligence.
Intelligence and education.
Let's not forget the education.
Your brother called her, named her debutante of the year.
The year.
How?
How could those many factors converge again?
Never.
It will never be again.
Really?
Never.
It cannot.
There is a, you know, you had some...
They were young, good-looking, rich.
They had everything.
They were the dream of everybody.
Amazing, isn't it?
Amazing.
To have lived through that.
Yes.
Was Camelot her conception?
It came after a trip to Canada because the defining moment was after the enormous success she had when she visited Canada, the president looked at her differently.
There was not only the wife he loved, but a tremendous political attu, Trump card, I mean.
He suddenly realized, and he said it later when he was in France, I'm the guy that came, I'm paraphrasing, with Jackie Kennedy.
But suddenly she became a political tool of the first order.
Asset.
I guess is the word, the operative word they used.
Big asset.
And he recognized it when he went to France and he said to himself, he said, I'm the man who's with Mrs. Kennedy.
And the French were bananas over there, didn't they?
It was quite an experience for you, I guess.
Fantastic.
And there could have been the case, because the French was silly and their criticism.
There was nothing but only compliments from the French press and from the people at large.
They liked the way she looked.
She looked like the first lady.
I'm just looking at my notes here if there's anything up.
Pardon me for jumping around.
No, no, go ahead.
Do you want something to drink?
No, I'm fine.
Thank you, sir.
I've been invited to your reception tonight, but I think I'm going to take a train back.
I came down from Massachusetts.
You're welcome, but whatever.
I'd love to, at some point, I've recently written a book of my own, which is doing pretty well.
In fact, Rizzoli has it.
It's on collecting, on bibliomania, and I understand that you're quite a collector of things.
I am collecting certain things.
And armor, and I noticed this.
Look at this paneling.
I'll bet you this is something.
How old is this?
This house was brought in by the Wells Fargo family.
Oh, really?
It's a 17th century Dutch house on the exterior.
And the paneling is Italian and English, 15th, 16th century.
And the armor that I have downstairs, afterwards you might want to give a look through it, is all things I collected from the various... Eva Kasten in England, Lord Astor, I bought an armor from... Here and there, I collect something like that, and I think this goes well...
With my upbringing, after all, I was brought up in Florence, a medieval city, small medieval city.
And when I'm in this house, I feel at home.
I had to recreate the ambiance.
Why armor?
I understand that you actually have said that armor made a fashion statement in its own way.
Absolutely, in its own way.
But armor because in my own, had the world not changed when I was a kid,
A child.
Had we not lost everything, chances are there never would be a designer.
That would never be my first choice.
I thought the army, to be part of the guards, and that was a cavalry officer.
That was my thing.
And today I'm still that way.
I'm a professional driver.
I race with my own horses.
I do the things that, in my heart of hearts,
would have been my first selection.
Armour too, that comes to the... I mean, it's atavistic almost.
You look wonderful, by the way.
Do you exercise?
You must exercise all the time.
Yeah, I've been in violent sports, and I'm 82 years old, but my doctor tells me, keep doing what you're doing because you're out of the ordinary.
You're really in marvelous shape.
I believe...
if it interests you at all, I mean that we don't use our imagination and our minds sufficiently.
I think you can slow down disease.
I think you can increase your life span.
I think you can almost fit to your desire your body.
I mean, I'm vain because it's been good for me to be vain.
I look at myself and say, come on, you're getting a little fat here.
I have a special pair of jeans that I put on.
If I see that I'm gaining a little weight, I just sacrifice and I eliminate certain things because I feel that I have to have the physical part of the role.
I mean, I am a creator, and I have to look like a creator.
Can you, just to jump around a little bit, can you compare the...
The White House, you said the four phases, and you do have them in the book too, but I guess you kind of lost touch with Jackie after the assassination.
Well, first thing, first of all, I gave a party in this very house for her in Onassis when they got married.
And I knew Onassis a long time before she ever knew him.
And it was, as a matter of fact, one of the few defenders of her marriage at that time
They were really furious at Jackie.
They wanted her to be a vestal virgin and remain up there somewhere, untouchable.
She went to Europe, but when you have your husband killed, when you have his brother killed, when this happens, you're suddenly worried about the future.
It's very understandable that she left.
She left.
It was too much.
She held on with great dignity to the tragic moment.
But after that, she wanted peace and quiet and money and yachts.
Security.
Security for the children, too.
I wrote a little blurb about her in my book because my book is about the passion for books.
It's over 25 centuries.
And when she died, her son came out and said she was with her friends, her family.
She was surrounded by her friends, her family, and her book.
Remember that quotation?
Yes, yes.
She went home to be with her books, her family, and her friends.
I thought that was quite a very poignant statement.
I agree with you.
I think she accelerated her own demise because she didn't want to look the way she looked.
Perfectionist to the end.
She wanted to go.
It was time to go.
You believe this in your heart?
I believe in my heart.
Because?
Would you just say that again?
Do you think because she wasn't exactly the way?
She didn't want to deal with the deterioration of the body.
And I know a doctor that told me because she was taking care of it.
She said, all right, I'm going home.
And she ended it up because I believe that the mind can do it.
I think you can absolutely...
desire to die.
I believe that.
And she did it.
Why is it so often you see a husband dies and the wife dies?
Right away after.
Or vice versa.
It happens so often.
So often.
We can kill ourselves easily.
Or my father, who's 84, you know, he works, he has his own little business, and he goes in every day.
And we say, why?
It's not making any money.
It doesn't matter.
No.
He goes in, and he's
This is his little empire, you know, and it keeps him alive.
If we close that thing, he dies.
And I think that's exactly what you're saying.
Well, in my case, I hope I have enough resiliency intellectually to, if I lost my business, etc., I would still want to die because it's a short experience anyway, life, and you want to go through it in as elegant a way as you can.
What was the ultimate satisfaction for you, knowing that you had participated, would you consider this an historic event?
Absolutely.
Certainly in the history of fashion, and you might even just talk generally about fashion.
Yes, I mean, it was a great accomplishment.
It is proven to be one, because 35 years later, it's just the same interest.
Among people who weren't even alive then.
That's right.
Young women, 35, 25, were wearing these clothes.
Absolutely.
I went to the Nixon Library the other day.
I just came back from California.
And I signed for 850 books there.
850.
Really?
And I had to go there.
There were maybe a hundred more people there that I could have signed books for.
So I mean, that she is a goddess in the minds of people, no doubt.
Larger than life, to use the cliche.
Yes, larger than life.
And you clothed her?
Yeah, but you know, it was more than clothing, because look, when she wanted to give parties... You're giving me the quote I wanted.
When she wanted to give parties, I knew all the people in Europe that she was interested in, or many of them,
And she would ask me, who do you think we should have at this party?
She asked you.
Yes.
She was making statements then.
Right.
It was a continuous effort to perfection.
And so there I played a role.
And then in the intimacy of that, on the weekends I spent with them, I mean, you know, we're not discussing clothes.
We're discussing the plight of the Indians.
I had certain things that I was trying to sneak through because I had a tiny bit of influence.
And there were many, many things.
And the president and I had one great love in common, cigars.
You want one?
I have some good ones.
Would you smoke one with me?
I would love one.
May I?
I'll get you one.
I just want to check my tape while you do that.
I'll get you a...
I can't imagine anything better than this, though.
This is quite wonderful.
I hope you like it.
If you don't mind, I'll get in my story that we enjoyed a cigar together.
I would like you to do that.
You see in the book there is a picture where the president is smoking his cigar while I imitate an Indian.
He didn't like Nehru at all, so I made fun of that.
What I consider myself to be was a samurai.
I was a samurai.
I was a Kennedy man, I was a samurai, and it transcended, believe me, all this transcended the designing.
Because he offered me an opportunity to do something else.
He said, do you want to design for Jackie, or do you want to be Commissioner of Indian Affairs?
Was he serious?
Serious, serious.
Because I had a lifelong involvement with the Indians.
I directed many.
They knew nothing, the Kennedys, about the Indians.
How did you learn so much?
Because when I was a child, somehow the first books that I read were about Indians, and then later on I became involved with some tribes.
I was an honorary chief in many tribes.
I went to visit many.
I stayed, and I lived in Ahogan,
in Arizona with a Navajos, with a beautiful Indian girl that had graduated from the University of Arizona, because one day she dared me.
She said, you're talking about Indian and all that.
You couldn't live like an Indian.
I said, yes, I could live like an Indian.
So I lived like an Indian.
And I was very, and still I am.
I mean, I know that this fast is going on with these casinos where the Indians were.
You just anticipated my question.
Indian tribes that are not Indian tribes.
Up in Connecticut.
Yeah, but I mean, if you look at the types, the somatic characteristic of the Indians are not there.
They're mostly Dutch mixed with some blacks and maybe here and there a little Indian.
The Indians, you've got to find them with the Navajos.
There are about 250,000 Navajos that are still Indians.
Um, I guess I did ask, no, maybe I didn't ask you to contrast the White House Jackie with the, with the phase three Jackie, I guess, was the phase, the phase two was, was the first lady Jackie, right?
The first phase, as I see it, prior to the White House, then the White House, then the Onassis period, and then the return to Fifth Avenue, her career, and, in the end.
Um,
How do you judge her sense of fashion after the White House?
Well, she had lost a look.
She had, on some dresses I thought she looked great, others I didn't like at all, but she did not have the look anymore because she was going to different people.
The very thing I had prophesied early on
Happened in phase two, in my opinion.
Had she gone, let's say, to Valentino only, well, then she would have looked like Valentino.
But she went here and there, and sometimes I didn't think the choices were good.
Could you have sustained the look for eight years?
Easy.
I mean, this isn't one of these little ephemeral things.
No, no, no.
First of all, it was based on, first of all, having created that look, I could amplify around it, and I could experiment with other things, but basically the look was there, and it was wearability, simple, almost monocle elegance.
So she would have stayed with her role.
At one point she said to me,
I would like something like, look like Princess Doretti, but younger.
So what she was concerned is looking like a queen.
And she looks like a queen.
She was a queen.
Can you think of any other women now, or subsequent to her, and not necessarily first ladies, but with whom you could have done something comparable?
Yes, but I would never, well, yes, in a major motion picture star,
I could have gotten, reached a lot of people.
I think of anybody in particular.
Well, I mean, I could have done it with Marilyn Monroe, although I designed only a few things for her.
I could certainly have done it with Grace Kelly.
I did it with Jean Tierney, which was my wife.
So I think there were opportunities.
There were all different types.
I could have done different looks.
I don't want to take up too much of your time.
No, no, you take...
all the time you need.
At some point, will you mind if I take a few color photographs?
Absolutely not.
Because a lot of my newspapers do want color, and they're really going to do something nice with this.
Good.
And I've got some very good newspapers that take me.
I'm in capital cities.
I'm like in Austin, Texas, and Columbus, and I'm in Salt Lake City, and I'm in Toledo.
I've got about 25 papers that I've lined up.
You must be very happy.
I work hard.
Well,
I am too.
Well, I can see it.
I'm very tired.
I work hard, I guess.
Believe me.
You're not having your cigar.
No, no.
Don't do it just by my account.
I hope you didn't just give me a cigar.
No, no.
I gave you a cigar because you're a cigar lover.
That's why I gave you a cigar.
That's wonderful.
Look at that.
Now, you must get these in from Havana, I would say.
No, I get them from England.
Ah.
I have a girl that works in England that works for me in England and when she comes here she brings me but don't put it in the paper they will confiscate it I won't I could never do that and then just briefly do you have a comment on the state of taste today well I think that we're going through a great crisis in this country
And fashion is only a reflection of the mood of the people.
There is no, for instance, the people are not showing off as they used to be.
Status, for the pure sake of status, is not in.
A rich man in Hollywood will wear bat-fitting jeans and wear tennis shoes and a cap in the back and drive with one of those...
jeeps or something like that whereas it used to be Rolls Royce's tailoring I mean to the immaculate tailoring in England that's out people are because I think one thing has happened finally happened to this great country we have lost something that was so charming optimism
The optimism is gone, and it's reflected in the way people look, don't care.
It's almost a revolt against the system, against the tax system, against many things.
I thought you were continuing.
Okay.
But in terms of fashion, do you think that it's, has it regressed from where?
No.
It's a changing direction.
They want a quieter, more elegant face.
They want less frills, less crazy things, less show business, more real, good, tailoring, good value.
And it behooves you to be alert to these changes.
You've got to be ahead of it.
Otherwise you're caught...
And you're finished.
I must please you, though, to see what you did 35 years ago.
Enormously.
I never thought that this would happen when I started this book.
It's just a coincidence.
Almost if destiny wanted to reward me and to get a recognition that I feel was not really always there.
I feel that a lot of people try to obfuscate the fact
They wanted to think that Jackie arrived in the White House and she designed all her clothes.
And the designer didn't exist.
And she probably cooked all the meals and painted all the rooms.
Well, did you feel slighted?
Yes, many times.
Because she asked me not to defend myself.
So you couldn't?
I couldn't.
And you really have kept your counsel?
I have.
For 35 years?
Yes.
So, I mean, you were one of these guys that, like the maid, you know, they leave and two months later there's a book out.
Everybody wrote books about them.
Their own people.
Their own secretaries.
I did not.
But this time, this book had to be written.
No one else could write it.
You're aware of that.
Because these books that are fashioned today are fashioned...
for the purpose of making money, being grotesque and horrendous books about Grace Kelly, horrendous books about Jackie, Baba Jack, and this, I thought, would be, without being polemic, using only her words, the statement.
That's it.
That's the way it was.
Well, I think it's a very elegant book, and you'll notice that I haven't asked you any of the salacious questions about Jack's womanizing and that.
You know, that's ridiculous, isn't it?
I had lunch Monday with Ben Bradley.
In fact, this is very interesting.
You have the third interview I've had this week with people who knew Kennedy very well.
Ben Bradley, it just occurs to me.
David Herbert Donald, the historian.
Yes.
He went to his house in Lincoln, Mass the day before yesterday.
Here I am with you today.
So this is it.
I hadn't thought of that until this minute, you know.
But Bradley says, you know, people won't believe it.
Even though I knew the man very well, I really didn't know.
I didn't know.
First of all, let's put it this way, although I would not want to be quoted on.
I'm not here to judge his habits, but let's look at the mentality.
Patriarchal family, where the man has certain rights and the woman has it.
That's fewer, shall we say.
Fewer.
Now, in Europe, this would be considered fine because the Napoleonic Code, for instance, adultery, as you know, adultery is in the home everywhere for the wife and only in the home for the man.
So ingrained in their culture was this patriarchal setup where the man was the owners of the whole thing and the woman would be there and cooking and suffering.
It evolved, but still I think Jack...
felt that he was a great fatalist.
And he did, he always, I remember saying to him, you know, Mr. President, you shouldn't go to Texas.
And he was, Adlai Stevenson was there, told him to also.
Then he decided to go with an open car.
You advised him?
I didn't like the feeling, because he was going in really enemy territory.
How many days was this prior to?
Maybe three or four days.
Really?
Yeah.
But I was not the only one, believe me.
I remember Adlai Stevenson really saying, please don't go.
Please don't go.
I mean, it's very hostile down there.
Listen, I don't want to take up too much of your time.
You've given me an hour.
I've got lots of tape.
But I wonder, would you inscribe my book?
I would love to.
Surely, let me show you what I have to do.
Because I think this has to be clearly not a book
that was written to make money.
I will not make any money, believe me.
I've invested a lot of my own money because of the research.
I had to get certain pictures.
Oh, I saw the photo.
I said, where did he get all these photo credits?
I mean, I know a little bit about... You know how it is.
I can't do it for my book.
So it's only used 50 pictures.
It is a parallel statement of a book that history will have because you will tell me and agree with me that the
Personages in history that are the best remembered by us are those who had people writing about the event.
For instance, Cortes would have never been Cortes in the mind of people if he hadn't had one of his soldier or writer.
What would Socrates be without Plato?
Right.
Socrates never wrote a word himself.
That's right.
Plato was there taking everything down.
Isn't that right?
True.
That's the point.
Christ never wrote anything, if you think about it.
No, it's true, never.
It was written a hundred years later by other people, Greeks generally.
That's right.
I'm a Greek, by the way, proudly.
I always remember this.
When I have difficult moments in life, which we all have, I remember the ancient Greeks saying that hope is the last goddess, last good goddess.
Remember that.
It gives me courage because my life has been a difficult one, full of ups and downs in the sense of being a risk taker.
Not everything is smooth.
That's what makes it interesting.
At this point I don't regret anything except my own personal stupidity.
My own personal stupidity.
I'll use some of these quotes if it's okay with you.
It's okay.
Please.
Because in a certain way at my age, at this stage in my life, I can be of some consolation to some people that I doubt about the very nature of life.
And sometimes I have the satisfaction to talk to people and they really listen to me.
After all, with the experience I've had, varied experience, through wars,
revolutions, lost money, even prestige, and going back to it.
This is an American story of mine, because the only difference is from rich to poverty to riches, whereas most people have from ranks to riches.
I have the other thing in the back.
But, you know, when I first started, people said, he's of noble origins.
That's a crime nowadays, to be a noble origin, because noble people of ancient ancestry are supposed to be idiots, supposed to be moronic, inbred, incapable of anything.
I'm really a great believer in meritocracy.
I believe, let's see what a man does, and then judge him by that, but certainly not be disqualified because
Not of my fault that I was born to that particular milieu.
Now let's be clear that where we speak is New York City.
Yes.
You don't make it in this city by noble lineage.
You make it through achievement.
Achievement.
Only.
If I'm right or wrong, this is... There's no other way.
This is New York.
This is Broadway in a larger... New York is the only real city left in the world, if you think of it.
It's the only city.
In good and in bad, it's there.
The queen of all cities.
I mean, you're not living in Monaco, you're not living in Paris, Florence, or any of these other wonderfully elegant places.
Yeah, but... You're here, working, continuing to work.
Can you just tell me a little... From where we sit right now, well, that's great stuff.
I don't want to take up... I do know you have...